---
title: "Dear Vikki, I'm re-rebooting"
subtitle: "Hi Vikki,"
published_at: "2024-12-17T01:01:03.000Z"
substack_url: "https://70yearswtf.substack.com/p/im-re-rebooting"
excerpt: "Hi Vikki,I was going to write a blog post about re-rebooting today. Not just today. Several days, including today. Haven't done it yet. Maybe today's the day. Or maybe tomorrow."
---
Hi Vikki,I was going to write a blog post about re-rebooting today. Not just today. Several days, including today. Haven't done it yet. Maybe today's the day. Or maybe tomorrow.I didn’t remember having written this blog post about rebooting, because I hadn't forgotten having written it.How can you remember something if you haven’t forgotten it?But even though I hadn’t forgotten that I had written it, I had forgotten what I had written.So I went back read that blog post about rebooting..I still do not remember it. A learned it again. And now I'm aware both of that I wrote, and what I wrote.When I went back to reread it, I saw that Vikki had left a lovely comment. Thanks, Vikki. Here’s Vikki’s Substack. Don’t say I never did anything for you, Vikki.I liked your comment (if you are Vikki—her comment if you are not) and then *liked* it. (You see the difference, right?) And then I went to your Substack (I mean your Substack, Vikki—not your blog if you are not Vikki, but instead Vikki’s Substack) and read a things you or Vikki had written, depending on who you are.And then I started writing a reply to Vikki.And then I decided I'd start the re-rebooting blog post by copy/pasting my reply to Vikki into a new, fresh draft, and continuing from there. Of course I had to edit the reply. So it’s different. Better, I think. But I was inspired by Vikki, and I decided I’d dedicate the blog post to Vikki. (Or to you, Vikki, if you happen to be Vikki.)Anyway—re-rebooting.I thought “You have to start re-rebooting somewhere and this is where I will start.”And then I thought, “This might be the end, for a while. And then I thought: “I don’t seem to be able to finish writing the things I start.” And then I thought “That’s not true. When someone writes you an email, you almost always write back.” Yeah, I wrote that in this post, here. Thank you Past Me.I'm not proactive, but I am responsive. If you send me an email, I will answer it. If you reply, I will reply back. Before you know it, we're having a conversation. But if I get busy and communication drops and you don't initiate, I'll just go on with my life as though I didn't care. But that's not true. I do care. I do respond. I just don't initiate. Unless there's a projectSo I’m going to trick myself into writing more by using this one weird trick. If you leave a nice comment like Vikki’s then I’ll reply with a post, dedicated to you.If you don’t leave a nice comment like Vikki’s I’ll imagine that you have, and I’ll reply with a post, dedicated to you.If I remember.Thanks Vikki!Love,Mike