---
title: "Every loving thought is true..."
subtitle: "An idea for today"
published_at: "2025-03-15T16:13:20.000Z"
substack_url: "https://70yearswtf.substack.com/p/every-loving-thought-is-true"
excerpt: "I love ideas.“We love you too,” I imagine an idea saying. Maybe even all of them.A Course in Miracles is a book full of ideas.“Like all books,” says an idea, or God, or someone."
---
I love ideas.“We love you too,” I imagine an idea saying. Maybe even all of them.A Course in Miracles is a book full of ideas.“Like all books,” says an idea, or God, or someone.This book doesn’t say that you need to believe the ideas. Indeed, it says this:Some of the ideas the workbook presents you will find hard to believe, and others may seem to be quite startling. ²This does not matter. ³You are merely asked to apply the ideas as you are directed to do. ⁴You are not asked to judge them at all. ⁵You are asked only to use them. (ACIM, W-in.8:1-5)Indeed, it says:…you need not believe the ideas, you need not accept them, and you need not even welcome them. ²Some of them you may actively resist. (ACIM, W-in.9:1-2)“Yes,” says the Workbook for A Course In Miracles, “that is what I say. Just apply them.”An idea for today³Every loving thought is true. ⁴Everything else is an appeal for healing and help, regardless of the form it takes. (ACIM, T-12.I.3:3-4)That idea changes the way I see things. It might do it for you.Pick a specific individual to whom the idea can be applied. Or, if you are not afraid to end a sentence with a preposition, pick a specific individual to apply the idea to.Since about half the country is triggered by Donald Trump, I’ll pick him to give you an idea of how to apply the idea.Apply the idea by recognizing that everything that Trump says that is not loving (and face it, he sometimes says some loving things) is an appeal for healing and help.If you apply the idea, you may be able to see him—and all the loud voices from every part of the political spectrum saying unloving things—as crying out for healing and help.So, bless them, for they know what they do.And for God’s sake, don’t attack them for crying for help. See if you can find a way to help.I don’t mean by implementing or resisting a policy but by finding your way to Love.Not suggesting you shouldn’t be involved in politics. Not suggesting you should. Just suggesting that whatever you do, you do with Love.Especially subscribing. Do it with love.Or sharing. With love.Share