---
title: "Today (and every day) we celebrate life"
subtitle: "Hello. I’m Bobbi. I’m Mike’s wife."
published_at: "2024-07-16T11:50:40.000Z"
substack_url: "https://70yearswtf.substack.com/p/today-and-every-day-we-celebrate"
excerpt: "Hello. I’m Bobbi. I’m Mike’s wife. I’ve never written a blog post before, but Mike asked me if I would and I said yes, and he signed me up on Substack, and here I am."
---
Hello. I’m Bobbi. I’m Mike’s wife. I’ve never written a blog post before, but Mike asked me if I would and I said yes, and he signed me up on Substack, and here I am.I thank everyone who came to the Celebration of Life in Blue Hill last Saturday. Mike asked me to confirm: yes, I was responsible for the good weather. I don’t know why I had spent so much time worrying about weather when I could have just fixed it. It’s easy—now that I know how. And yes, I was there with each of you. Mike picked out this song from a show that he and I saw together (and Dana stage-managed) that captures my feeling. And I am there in music I am there in skyI also heard the words of those who spoke and I heard the words of those who didn’t speak. And I felt love. Not just love for me—there was plenty of that—but love for one another. And love for life.Please remember to celebrate life. Not just mine. Not just yours. But all of it.And remember whatever good you saw in me was already in you—or you would not have seen it.Mike said that lots of people been asking him, with concern,“How are you?” He tells everyone that he’s doing fine, and sometimes even great. And then, later, they ask again. I assure you that he is doing fine. I’ve been with him from the beginning. I’m with him now. And I am there in flowers I am there in snowWe talk—when he’s not on his computer—and even when he is. We write emails. And now a blog post. He’s told me that he’s has been feeling closer to me lately, and I feel likewise.Any time you laugh Any time you cryYou may be wondering how I can write a blog post when I am—uh—Mike? [editor’s note: link to Monty Python Dead Parrot Sketch]Dana wrote and read “I am a part of you, you are a part of me," and that is true. I am a part of Dana, and also Mike and Mira and Alyssa, and their husbands and their children and my friends. And, Mike adds, even if you have never met me, I’m now a small part of you.I’m writing this through Mike, which is only fair because for most of our years together I did all the communicating for the two of us.[Editor’s note: true and fair.]I see the world differently now. I don’t have the burden of a body.My fears are gone.I’m with friends. Dawnie, Tommy, Nancy Hodermarsky and others.I’m not recommending that anyone join me right away. Like me, you will when it’s time. But I am saying, don’t worry about. Don’t worry for yourselves or anyone else.Celebrate life!And I am there each morning I am there each fall I am present without warning And I'm watching it all Yes I'm watching it allI think this is a good place to stop.Love to you all,Bobbi